GPT (text-davinci-003) used to revise manuscript (#30)
greenelab/manubot-gpt-manuscript: content/05.conclusions.md

Surprisingly, in one Methods section, the model detected an error when referencing a symbol in an equation that had been overlooked by humans.
However, abstracts were more challenging for the model to revise, where revisions often removed background information about the research problem.
There are opportunities to improve the AI-based revisions, such as further refining prompts using few-shot learning [@doi:10.1145/3386252] or fine-tuning the model using an additional corpus of academic writing focused on particularly challenging sections.
Fine-tuning using preprint-publication pairs [@doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3001470] may help to identify sections or phrases likely to be changed during peer review.
Our approach used GPT-3 to process each paragraph of the text, but it lacked a contextual thread between queries, which mainly affected the Results and Methods sections.
Using chatbots that retain context, such as [OpenAI's ChatGPT](https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt), could enable the revision of individual paragraphs while considering previously processed text.
Once an official API becomes available for ChatGPT, we plan to update our workflow to support this strategy.

> Other open models, such as BLOOM [@arxiv:2211.05100], GLM [@arxiv:2210.02414], or OPT [@arxiv:2205.01068], could also be used, though they lack the highly usable OpenAI API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other open models, such as BLOOM [@arxiv:2211.05100], GLM [@arxiv:2210.02414], or OPT [@arxiv:2205.01068], provide similar capabilities but lack the user-friendly OpenAI API.
```

Despite these limitations, we found that models captured the main ideas and generated a revision that often communicated the intended meaning more clearly and concisely.
It is important to note, however, that our assessment of performance in case studies was necessarily subjective, as there could be writing styles that are not widely shared across researchers.

The use of AI-assisted tools for scientific authoring is controversial [@doi:10.1038/d41586-023-00056-7; @doi:10.1038/d41586-023-00107-z].
Questions arise concerning the originality and ownership of texts generated by these models.
For example, the International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) has prohibited the submission of *"papers that include text generated from a large-scale language model (LLM)"* [@url:https://icml.cc/Conferences/2023/llm-policy], although editing tools for grammar and spelling correction are allowed.
Our work focuses on revising *existing* text written by a human author, similar to other tools such as Grammarly [@url:https://www.grammarly.com].
Despite the concerns, there are also significant opportunities.

> Our work lays the foundation for a future in which human and machine contributions construct academic manuscripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our work lays the foundation for a future in which humans and machines construct academic manuscripts.
```
